if you weren't paying attention to your
dad what are the chances that you get
beat if I wasn't paying attention to my
father yeah I always I was always paying
attention to my father that's the first
thing I did I step in the door good so
my point is that you are always paying
attention and why is that because even
before you remember there were times
that you weren't paying attention and
when you weren't paying attention you
didn't see the look because you were
playing with your Legos and then you got
beat so you learned from a very very
early age you always have to pay
attention because that is survival
mechanism think about it like
evolutionarily like in one scenario you
get beat and in one scenario you don't
get beat so your six-year-old brain
learns I have to pay attention and now
what's happening is you haven't learned
to stop paying attention or you haven't
realized that you're still paying
attention
well let's see if we can help you out
with that what what are you nervous
about let's start there talking about
what what are we talking about uh
PTSD and trauma I'm just this is
something that like I keep well I kept
bottled up for a long time so just
letting it out it's nerve-wracking but
it's something I feel like I need to do
why have you kept it bottled ah I'm
scared scared of like cuz it if you keep
it bottled up it's like it's your burden
to bear I guess I've been vocal about
this on my stream a couple of times and
stuff and every time I let it out I just
get so emotional and I get so like and I
don't really like as a streamer like you
want to entertain your chat you don't
want to like burden them with your
troubles you know but I can't do my job
and entertain if I'm feeling the way I
feel does that make sense sure I'm not
so sure that I agree with this idea of
entertainment so I think part of the
reason that twitch is such a powerful
platform is because it's not just one in
games right it's fun and games most of
the time but there's enough of reality
in there which is why I think it's like
like I think there are other platforms
out there that are a little bit more
soulless like it's not about like
there's no human connection there's no
interaction and part of what I think
makes twitch actually amazing is that
it's it's the stuff that I'm guessing
that you perceive is unentertaining like
burdening twitch chat is actually part
of what makes them form a connection
with you and it's not entertainment but
it's like you know like their movies
that are really good that are not fun
right yeah and what makes them good it's
because like there's something about
life and reality and like it's a blend
of like fun stuff that we do and also
[ __ ] that's
so I don't mean but I'm with you like I
know that you know I'm sure you feel
burdened to like entertain people
because that's why they watch right
wow that's gigantic bottle of water yeah
it's I I'm too lazy to have a cup to go
downstairs to refill it so I just have
this and it keeps a cold it's like a
thermal water thing so there's like ice
cubes in there how much water does that
store I have I have it's a lot I drink
this whole I try to drink this whole
thing once a day to keep hydrated nice
well let me see yours
but like don't you get tired of like
having that glass and just refilling it
with water all the time yeah I do and it
gets like warm it gets like hoop warm
like room temperature you know I mean
this is this is some temperature [ __ ] I
have here yeah so I mean I get that
you're nervous so like is there you say
that you you do let this out on stream
from time to time yeah because I feel
like if I can let people in on the
things I've gone in my life it can help
people go through or it can help people
go through what they're what's going on
in their lives because everyone has some
sort of trauma everyone has some sort of
like so they everyone has demons in the
skeletons in the closet so if I can
share my story and share my skeletons in
the closet maybe it can help somebody
else absolutely man that's an Elsa it
also helps me to get through it because
I I've never been vocal about what
happened in my childhood to anybody
other than my girlfriend and my stream
okay I've never told anyone
except for my girlfriend and thousands
of people on the Internet I haven't told
like my closest friends I haven't told
like family I mean so twitch chat was
just trolling me about like I was like
yeah twitch chat I'm gonna trust you
guys and they're like law what like
you're trusting us and I'm like
I'm trusting you because you were
trustworthy it's kind of a mind-boggling
they don't understand that yeah but yeah
yeah my torch dad knows more about me
than my family than my friends that my
family than anyone
strong worked twitch at talk about being
good listeners so okay can I and you
know if I ask a question that is too
fast or you don't want to answer but I
find myself being curious when you say
like stuff that happened to you that you
know your friends don't know I find
myself being curious like what what
happened to you man
so me and my family we grew up in a we
grew up in poverty we're really really
poor and I don't really know if it was
the poverty that drove my dad to the way
became or if it was just he was he was
gonna become that way either way I think
being poured definitely made it worse
but he she was an alcoholic a raging
alcoholic he was she was abusive
emotionally and physically towards me
and my mother
yeah that's he
[Music]
he beat me and my mom
and emotionally he you know he'd say a
lot of things
it-it-it berry from day to day and yeah
how do i I mean do you want a story
there's like feel like telling one I was
just kind of listening there for a
second I to be completely honest and
what am i calling my calling you coconut
B you can just call me Coco Coco so Coco
I mean just what you shared actually
sort of like knocked me over emotionally
to be honest I didn't I just didn't have
words in my head for a little bit yeah
people say that so I was just kind of
processing you know it's kind of
interesting because you didn't really
use a whole lot of like language but
just something about the way that you
said it I think carried a certain weight
to it mmm you know cuz you kind of said
he was a raging alcoholic and he was
physically and emotionally abusive and
that sentence isn't I mean it's a bad
sentence but it's not like I felt
something from you and like what do what
did you what did you feel that's what I
was trying to figure out
I think I think what I felt was a weight
like it's you know like you can say you
got punched and you can say you got
slugged mm-hmm like what's the
difference between getting punched and
getting slugged can you slug sounds more
funny interesting Lex I got you know I
got slugged by that guy like you might
laugh but you know that guy punched me
like it's like oh smart move
yeah there's more umph yeah so like I
mean I didn't perceive that as is funny
I perceived it as like maybe a piece of
[ __ ] no you know you each carry
different connotations to certain words
and they just sounded it just sounded
heavy it sounded give me a second I'll
tell you what I heard I heard a certain
sense of finality to it I heard a
certain sense of inescapability to it I
heard a certain sense of you trying to
understand and like try to figure out
what was going on maybe almost you
trying to forgive him by understanding
that poverty may have had a role to play
that you're not sure if it was his fault
or if it was all his fault or how much
was that his fault and was he under
pressure but that it was his fault to a
certain amount but that there are other
factors that went into it I saw I heard
hurt on you I also heard almost and you
know this is all just me projecting
right because like I can't really know
any of this [ __ ] but I I heard almost
like more heart with you watching the
way that he treated your mom
I heard powerlessness
inevitability
yeah
that sounds about right yeah
and I think something about what you
shared carried all of that uh so my
father is he's now dead yeah
he pretty much drank himself to death he
had cancer liver cancer it started in
his throat and my guess it's because of
his use of cigarettes and then it's um
everyone was saying it's gonna be okay
like it's literally nothing serious you
know one surgery will fix it but then it
spread everywhere and like in an in span
of beer he he died you know from going
from it's nothing serious and the
doctors all saying it's it's not it's
not gonna be a big of a deal to him
dying and it's not it's not the pain
that he caused me and my my mother that
hurts me it's cuz this all happened when
I was 14 me my mother we ran away from
him
we was put ties with them we had no
communication I'm 21 now and what's
crazy is I don't think I was emotionally
mature enough to understand everything
that was going on and now that I'm 21
you know when you're a kid and like an
adult can tell you the sky is purple and
you're like okay it's purple you know
why cuz they're an adult you just
believe and then when you become an
adult you yourself you're just like that
guy was full of [ __ ] this guy wasn't
purple what did he tell you that was
full of [ __ ] what did they tell you that
was [ __ ]
it wasn't what he told me it's what he
did like he had always uh back to the
emotional part he would always looking
back he pretty he mirrored he was a very
insecure man he projected his
insecurities onto me and my mother but
me I think emotionally I actually I
don't know I think my mother and your
two different types of things but he you
know I didn't really do that good in
school
and he would just what am i why why did
I make you or or why are you my son or
you know call me a bunch of swear words
and always question what I'm doing with
my life and always told me I'm wasting
my time and why couldn't you get an
a-plus why couldn't you do this better
why couldn't you know and if it weighs
on you sand could never be good enough
for him yeah and now that I'm grown up
he did nothing he didn't do anything he
he spent all the money on cigarettes and
alcohol tons of money and he would scold
me for wanting to buy a chocolate bar a
$1 chocolate bar which every kid wants
chocolate every kid wants can't write
but he would turn it around into
something like how dare you ask for him
how dare you ask for this dad can I go
on this field trip how dare you ask to
go on the field trip you know what did
that how did you feel when he when he
said that
I felt like holy [ __ ]
maybe I am asking for too much you know
maybe I am a piece of [ __ ] mm-hmm
why am I asking to go on the field trip
wow I'm so uh why I'm so spoiled because
he would call me spoiled and I'd be like
I am spoiled I believe them cuz he's my
dad and I loved him used to love him
I don't I don't know I I don't really
when I try to recollect my memories I
don't really have any with him except
negative experiences how does it feel to
realize that
uh it's just messed up it's it just and
this goes back to when I said when he
what he passed away it's there's no
there's no fairytale ending there's no
you made a mistake and you're able to
come back and we were able to meet up as
grown men and talk about it there's none
of that it just could all ask me like
you got robbed man that's the sense that
I'm getting you got robbed of so many
things there's possibility of good
memories with your dad
possibility of a dad possibility of a
dad who supports you
the possibility to tell your dad to go
[ __ ] himself which I don't know if you
ever there yeah yeah did you yeah 100%
how did that feel - what pretty bad
pretty bad I mean it's like I said it's
just no potential
there's nothing it's he's gone and that
I think that hurts me even more cause
it's just cuz I cuz a crazy thing is is
my dad I found this out for my sister
she's not really myself she's my
half-sister she was she was from a
failed marriage previously of my
father's but I consider my sister and
she told me think a few months I think a
month ago she told me my father was
abused as a child - he was he was beat
really bad by his father
and when I heard that at first I I
laughed cuz the irony
you know you get beat as a child by your
own father and that you become into him
mm-hmm and then it broke me because you
know he knew what that feels like
he knew oh [ __ ] he knew what that felt
like to get hurt and he did it to me
so I I just
that's heavy man because you know I I
wonder if there was some part of you
that you know there's some comfort in
obliviousness right there's like there's
a difference between making a mistake
because you didn't know where it wasn't
under your control or maybe it was the
poverty or maybe it was the alcohol or
maybe he you know maybe you were a
spoiled kid and and like those are all
like good explanations like they're safe
explanations yeah but if you know what
it's like to be hurt and you do it to
someone else it's like so much more
intentional yeah well that's kind of
hurt like way more yeah that and now
that I'm more emotionally aware and I
think very emotionally aware Coco I'm
pressed to be honest by the way if I'm
talking about being grown up at the age
of 21 I was like damn son I know I mean
it's more than fourteen it's more than
fifteen you know yeah but let's be let's
I mean maybe in your case you really are
growing up but in my case I was like
basically developmentally 14 when I was
21 it's not an exaggeration and I think
we're you know we're not adults at 21
like we call ourselves adults but like
how many 21 year olds know how to pay
their taxes in my mind you're not an
adult until you learn how to pay your
taxes I paid my taxes we'll see your
your separate your different cocoa
you're not one of us then
why I think I've done a lot of critical
thinking and I got a lot of what has
happened in my childhood and because of
the experiences and the ranges of
emotion I felt I more emotionally
intelligent very much so
and I I do a lot of self-criticism and a
lot of self thinking and the reason why
I came to you is because I feel as if my
worst fear is becoming like my father
ah that's my worst fear we can help you
with that
can I just think for a second yeah yeah
for sure
so I'm gonna just think out loud okay
I'm gonna try to imagine some of your
thoughts and I'm gonna try to imagine
some of your reservations and I'm going
to try to address them the short answer
Koko is I'm not worried about you
becoming abusive at all and I've known
you for all of 15 minutes so what the
[ __ ] do I know
not much and so I think the challenge
here is that you see some amount of like
I said at the very beginning I mean
after your first kind of couple
sentences I said there's a certain
inevitability to it right and what I'm
hearing even in that question is an
issue of inevitability like your dad got
beat when he was a kid really bad and so
he beat you really bad and even though
he knew what it was like he still did it
and and so there's a part of me that
wonders like I'm just trying to put
myself in your shoes like is it possible
to break that cycle because it seems
like it isn't like there's a certain
sense of you know powerlessness about
this whole thing does that resonate with
you at all
it scares me yeah so I think it's
completely reasonable that it does and
that's actually why I have faith in you
because it scares you so I don't think
that your dad I don't think when he was
21 I would be really really surprised to
hear words like what's coming out of
your mouth come out of his mouth I think
your dad was maybe we can't capable of
all kinds of things and I really don't
know him I never met the guy never will
so this is an unfair judgment but he
doesn't seem to me someone who's very
self-reflective he wasn't right and so
in my mind power comes I mean our whole
ethos is that power comes from awareness
like this is what confuses people they
say like what do i do once I understand
then I say like I kind of say you don't
do anything you just understand it's
very like a weird idea for people that
understanding is enough so I think the
things that
what do you play Coco that play rust not
too familiar with rust can you tell me
about it
uh it's pretty much you spotted naked
with a rock and then you go kill other
nakeds with rocks okay it's like a huge
like you know like the saying like crabs
in a bucket yeah each trying to pull
each other down yeah yeah it's it's
literally just people pull each other
down for no reason this may sound kind
of weird but do you feel abusive when
you're playing rust yeah I kill people
and like I take like it you know
minecraft you know how you can farm and
you like get you have a box and you put
all your farm in the box and you like
and you start upgrading you go from dirt
to stone to like obsidian whatever
diamond rusts like the same concept you
like it's really like satisfying to the
brain because you can like you start
with a rock and then you slowly progress
and you go from like a primitive Rock
player you're on that island and then
you progress and you like start getting
you get a bow and then you get like a a
handmade like handmade yoga gun and then
you go from that to like a double-barrel
shotgun you just progress and as you're
progressing in order to progress you
have to kill other real players and you
have to take their stuff it's either
they take your stuff or you take their
stuff so it's you against them yeah is
there a particular if you played
Minecraft before yeah I have like 2000
hours in Minecraft so do you do the
games feel different to you yeah I love
games where it's like open world
survival games I love that concept like
almost huge fan of dayz minecraft rust
glass noises no I think that game [ __ ]
why it just doesn't really look that
good I don't know I I checked it out
like I haven't played it but I'm just I
think I'm just really addicted to rust
got it
fair enough I mean I just think it's
kind of like you know this is this is me
being a little bit academic and Freudian
but you know it seems to be like so I I
just know that some of my friends play
last oasis and they're just like super
toxic humans
for us is really bad it's pretty toxic
so oddly enough yeah I think that's not
necessarily a bad thing so I think
sometimes we need outlets for certain
feelings that we have and I'd just be a
little bit curious I don't know that we
need to go talk about this or if this is
me really connecting dots because really
none of this stuff is supported by
science or very little of it but there
is some evidence that people are drawn
to video games for particular reasons
music and so you know they're different
like six subtypes of like kinds of
gamers so there's like the Explorer so
this is someone who enjoys games where
you like explore things there are people
who are more interested in narrative
there are people who are more interested
in competition there are people who are
interested in progression you know there
are so many different kinds of video
games like there are people who are
interested in like strategy and tactics
and so the question is does that
correlate to our personality and this is
really the first time that I've ever
wondered about and I'm not please don't
interpret this like this because I'm
about to say something that I think can
very easily get taken out of context but
whether there's an abuser that is
growing within you that finds an outlet
a trust hmm I mean my first game was
Starcraft it was Starcraft 1 and the
Starcraft 2 and then I got into dayz and
then I got it to rust but what you said
about like I thought about this too I
was like man I didn't like in rust like
I have a rock that guy's a rock we gain
nothing from killing each other I kill
him anyways and I thought about this I
was like why did I kill him like I said
there was another like time and rust
when someone builds like a sign is like
a rust lemonade shack I broke it and I
don't I just broke it because I wanted
to break it and I thought about I was
like why do i why do I enjoy doing that
like why did that make me happy to
destroy someone like what someone built
you know what I'm saying yeah it could
be because I just wanted to entertain
the chat and like like oh look it's a
lemonade chat
Stan let's break it you know or it could
be because I had a puce and I'm just
abusing a pixelated rust and I don't I
don't know which oddly enough I think
even if that latter thing is true so I'm
really curious about that too I'd love
to catch you in those moments cocoa and
actually talk to you about like what's
going on in your head mm-hmm
and maybe we can do a little bit of that
now but oddly enough I think that that's
okay so I think we have like tendencies
and I think that video games can
sometimes be a healthy way for us to
like work out our tendencies like they
can satisfy a part of us so that we
don't have to do that in the real world
I'll get it it's it's like break like
dominoes you know you set all the
dominoes up you spend hours doing it and
then you just break it and it's super
satisfying to do it
you know so it doesn't matter to you
that it is someone else do you break
your own dominoes yeah I I would like
make well I was terrible at making Legos
but I would do what I can to make the
leg goes as a child and then I would
just break it or like I would how does
it feel to break things feels like I
don't know it just you build it up and
then you break it like I would I would
make like a big base in Minecraft and
then I'd spend like hours doing it and
then I put TNT inside the base and I'd
blow it all up and it felt good to do
satisfy what's satisfying I don't know
just seeing it all just like blow up and
like the darts like coming out of the
sky and you're just like oh and like I
don't know hmm is that weird
is that like odd yes [ __ ] okay I think
it's okay I don't think it's bad so you
asked me if it's weird right so is it
odd is it outside in the norm I just
think about so like let me let me
explain what I mean I don't mean to be
judgmental there but you asked me a
question and sometimes in other people
is that okay no you're fine okay
so like let me just put it this way when
I see most people who play with Legos I
see the operative part of playing with
LEGOs is the building not the breaking
like ie like that like even I'll go into
adults homes and I'll see they'll have
like Legos on shelves instead of
trophies mm-hmm right yeah and I think
about like why like you know when I
think about like breaking apart Legos
like generally speaking the reason most
people break I mean I don't know about
most cuz I've never done a study about
this but when I think about like
breaking Legos I think about the goal of
breaking Legos is so that you can build
them again like there's the there's
enjoyment in the building and then like
a lot of times like you know for example
like my kids get really bent out of
shape if I try to put their Legos away
because they've built something and they
want to keep this truck or whatever that
they put together I want to lose a
little bit distracted like more like
it's a little bit destructive but I do
think it is I mean generally speaking in
my singular anecdotal experience most
people who play with Legos are into the
building is opposed to the breaking does
it mean you're damaged in some way
please don't interpret it that way all
I'm saying is that it does seem to be
different from most of what I've seen
about why people use Legos what do you
think about that I think there's some
truth like I've thought of like why I do
the things I do in rust or I thought
that things like like you know in
Minecraft I would go in grief people
like I would like there'd be like a
wooden base and I'd be like man [ __ ]
this guy and I'd wide his base on fire
man he would type in Chadwicks why the
hell did you do that I said [ __ ] you
then I ran away yeah I don't I think
there's some truth to it truth to what
what do we say what are you saying cuz I
think I did it because I felt powerless
like at the time like I was 13 and there
was I had no control I had no control
over my life I was super insecure I
still am super insecure I'm still like
battling through that and it felt I
think that's why we go to video games no
to like have an outlet to like have some
type of control it feels really good to
get good I don't like it to become
really really good at a game and have
control in the video game because you
have no control in your life ok so just
pause for a second Coco I'm gonna ask
you a magic question are you getting the
sense that I'm saying this what do you
mean like all the stuff that you just
said are you getting the sense that
that's coming from me or is that coming
oh no that's coming from me okay because
I just all I was saying is that I think
it is unusual like that most people when
I hear them talk about Legos
they talk about building or they seem to
emphasize building and so you ask me is
that weird and I said yes I'm not
interpreting what that means I get the
sense that that interpretation is coming
from you hmm right so like I haven't
said anything about you being powerless
as a thirteen-year-old like that shits
oh you know I'm saying that I mean I
think it's a good insight and I would
agree with it and it's a hypothesis that
I had which maybe you picked up on but I
just was a little bit confused because I
hadn't shared that with you yet so then
let me ask you this like you know that
feeling that you get before you break
something down yeah like you want to
break it down what you want it to be
broken you don't want it to be the way
that it is you want to take something
away from someone yeah do you remember
feeling that way at home or at school or
when you were growing up no not really
now
I wanted to take someone's stuff yeah or
maybe like more related to your dad like
did your dad ever like evoke that
feeling like I know you couldn't act on
it uh so you are basically asking if I
had any like negative I wanted to do
something negative to my father is that
what you're asking me yeah yeah yeah a
lot of times I when he would hit my mom
I would envision me picking up the golf
club next to me and hitting him with it
or I would envision me hitting him
really hard in the head and stopping him
or I would try to like figure out a way
I could physically stop him how did it
feel to not be able to do those things
they still haunt me to this day the
feeling the feeling of not being able to
protect my mom and not being able to
stand up and do something about it and
powerless like I'm not like what kind of
son am i if I'm not able to protect my
own mother so Coco that makes I cannot
imagine that you would feel that way I
think anyone in that situation any
thirteen-year-old who's watching one of
their parents hit another one of their
parents is gonna feel ashamed and guilty
that they didn't do something to protect
them and that's what I'm hearing you say
yeah you're aware that you feel this way
like this is not new to you right no no
okay
so now I'm gonna ask you so like
sometimes people come here and I'm not
quite sure what what our goal is here
today but my sense is generally speaking
I try to help people possibly explore
things that they haven't explored before
and so the the takeaway from that whole
story is that
you were not good enough of a person
right like you weren't good enough you
weren't strong enough and so you blame
yourself for that right yeah I wonder if
there's actually like a weird shadow to
that light or that object which is that
do you blame yourself at all for like
not being an [ __ ] and not being evil
enough and being too good to not hurt
your dad like you wish I was more evil
absolutely I mean if if that's what it
takes to be able to prevent him from
touching my mom from hurting my mother
if that if that's what it takes then
absolutely but yes 100% in my mind those
two three different things and maybe
they're not to you but like like so not
being able to stand up to your dad for
your mom's sake makes me think like you
are not good enough right like you're
not like honorable enough or protective
enough you're you're missing a positive
quality with me hmm
ya know like I'm following it okay but I
wonder if there's also like some sense
in you that you're missing a negative
quality like you're not evil enough to
do a bad thing and I wonder if you blame
yourself for that like what is the
absence of a good thing like I'm not
able to sacrifice for my mom and one is
the absence of a bad thing it's like I'm
not enough of a bastard to hit him over
the back of a head with a golf club like
you see how ones like a good person and
one's a bad person
yeah like which one of those resonates
with you or both both of them do cuz
it's I don't know if it's because I
don't know if it's all like I'm such a
good person I couldn't hit my dad I
I just felt fear okay I was terrified
what were you afraid of
that you would that he would hurt me
back but she he did anyways sure so like
what's the point then like you might as
well you might as well do something you
know and so that's what I'm like it's
just like it's just a constant back and
forth and I think a lot of my
insecurities stems from my childhood
what do you mean by insecurity what are
you insecure about not being in control
like of my own like mind in my own body
and not being in control of like what's
going on like how my like how like how
my emotions lead me to do something I
wouldn't want to do such as like happen
yeah like I have like random emotional
outbursts and like that weed me to
hitting holes in the wall what do you
think is going on there
what do you mean by rain can you give an
example of a random emotional hoppers
like something that's so like miniscule
something that's like a minor thing like
a random annoyance like like something
I'm arguing about with my girlfriend or
something like a problem I'm having with
somebody right I get really angry like I
can go zero to a hundred for no reason
in it and then it pisses me off even
more because I'm just like you're acting
like your father now hmm so then I get
moring I can see why you're so concerned
about being becoming an abusive parent
Jim yeah because it sounds like
sometimes you're not in control No
I'm more worried about you becoming an
abusive parent now what do you think
about that I think I agree with you
I think maybe my statement earlier of
having faith because you're good or you
know you try to emotionally explore was
maybe a bit premature what do you think
I think so too
I'm glad we're on the same page so we
should take this seriously right maybe
you aren't as good of a person as as dr.
K thought you were what do you think
yeah and that's why we're here today
beautiful well I'm glad you're here
today man I really hope I can help you
out in some way I'm glad you're having
me so let me think can I teach for a
little bit instead I ask you questions
would that help you know yeah I mean I
know you've shared a lot so I kind of
want to take the pressure off
there are a couple of different angles
to this the short answer first of all
Coco let me start by saying I am still
confident that you can become a warm and
loving parent who is not abusive so let
me start there I don't think you're
hopeless I think it's gonna be a steeper
road then I thought it was gonna be what
is it like to hear that was that sigh
relief okay so I think I think it's
gonna be your it's gonna be an uphill
battle but I think you can do it and
furthermore I think you're on the right
track I still have faith in you although
I'm recognizing that this isn't going to
be as easy as I thought it was so the
first thing that I'm going to share with
you is actually something about
neuroscience so when you take so our
brain has emotional circuitry like the
amygdala and the hippocampus and there
are studies that show that different
people the activity of their emotion how
can I say this their emotional responses
vary compared let me just think okay so
I'll just I was gonna try to simplify
things but I'm not gonna simplify things
it's actually easier to explain if I
don't simplify there is something called
borderline personality disorder have you
ever heard of it borderline personality
disorder yeah I think I've heard of it
okay do you know what like you know like
in the media there's kind of this common
conception of a crazy ex-girlfriend yeah
like you don't like the attributes of a
crazy ex-girlfriend like they flip out
right it's small things they stalk you
they show up here they do this there's
like something about them that's like a
little bit crazy or very crazy and I'm
not I'm not trying to say that women are
more so than men or anything like that
but I'm just pointing out that this is a
stereotype that a lot of people
understand and I think it illustrates
some neuroscientific concepts so the
stereotype in common media of a crazy
ex-girlfriend is actually clinically
what we tend to call borderline
personality disorder so these are issues
these are people that have generally
speaking the following buckets of issues
okay so the first is that they have a
fear of abandonment so whenever someone
pulls away from them they kind
like flip now the second thing is that
they tend to be like emotionally like
zero to a hundred very quickly so in
studies of people with borderline
personality disorder they take a
particular emotional insult and they do
it to someone with BPD and someone
without BPD and what they find is that
the the activity level of the emotional
parts of their brain spikes way faster
and also stays elevated way longer than
other people
so if a healthy person gets let's say a
bad performance review at work they're
gonna get bummed out over the course of
the interview where they get the
performance review like it's gonna
happen like thirty minutes into the
interview they feel really bad about
themselves and they're gonna feel bad
about themselves for like between one
and three days for someone with BPD they
start to feel bad about themselves sixty
to ninety seconds in the interview even
before they get the bad news they start
to like feel really terrible about
themselves and then they they beat
themselves up for an entire week so
literally the brains of people with
borderline personality disorder or more
emotionally responsive to small stimuli
and stay more emotionally responsive for
way longer than a normal person's brain
does that make sense
yeah that makes sense what do you think
is the number one risk factor for
borderline personality disorder trauma
absolutely so what what we've come to
understand is that borderline
personality disorder is like it's not
like an infection right look they don't
just wake up one day huh are they bad
people no no I know it no oftentimes
they are perceived at bad people because
they do things and this is why I'm
explaining this to you because I don't
think you're a bad person they do things
that are perceived as crazy by other
people because other people don't
understand why they behave the way that
they do and the other thing that people
don't understand is that BPD people are
not stupid or crazy or knots or bad
their brains literally wired this way to
protect them from certain circumstances
so I'll give you just a
simple example why is it that a normal
person gets feels bad about themselves
30 minutes into a performance review
when your boss is telling you you've
done a [ __ ] job at a B & C whereas the
person with BPD within 90 seconds of the
start of the interaction the person with
BPD feels like their [ __ ] like how the
[ __ ] does that work your boss comes in
they say hey like how are you doing
today what'd you have for lunch and at
this point the person with BPD starts
thinking oh I'm an absolute piece of
[ __ ] oh [ __ ] I'm gonna get fired how did
they even know to think that does that
experience relate to you at all by the
way like can you understand that yeah
yeah I think I do so Alex what way do
you relate to that the fear of
abandonment okay so I'll explain to you
why people with BPD are the way that
they are so I want you to imagine I mean
in your case you don't have to imagine
what it's like to grow up so for people
who haven't grown up with abusive
parents imagine what it's like to grow
up in an abusive household let me ask
you this how likely like let's say you
get home from school one day was your
dad at home when you got home yeah how
long would it take you to know if you
were gonna get beat that day did give me
the look absolutely so now we get to the
look is actually something that has been
scientifically validated so what this
means is that people with border like so
in your case what your child brain was
doing is interpreting information and it
learned how to predict how someone is
going to behave based on how they look
at you so a look is way more significant
to you than it is to the average person
and that's absolutely a survival
mechanism do you get that yeah like you
have to know the minute you walk in the
door which of your dads you're gonna
you're dealing with where is he on his
spectrum so there's a really really
fascinating study it's my favorite study
on BPD where they take people they take
people with BPD and they show them a
face
expression so like this so like how long
does it take me to change from going
like this to this second it's like a
second yeah
so then what they did is they filmed
that that one second and they broke it
into 100 frames so if we think about it
like it halfway through the second I'm
halfway through smile and halfway
through frown I'm kind of like this
right and if you show my face to a
normal person who's halfway between
smile and halfway between frown what do
you think they interpret he's happy and
then he's frowning on the contrary they
don't know what the [ __ ] to interpret
okay whereas you can show someone with
BPD
20 frames in so when this person is
still smiling 80 percent but they only
have 20% of anger in their face a person
with BPD picks up the anger whereas a
normal person they have to be eighty
percent angry before they they pick up
the anger that's interesting that's
that's fascinating fascinating this is
the look you know exactly what the look
is and other people who haven't grown up
with abusive parents don't understand
they like their brain literally cannot
process that degree of information to
like interpret how someone is going to
react this is a consequence of your
brain adapting to trauma so now we get
to why do you blow up it seems random
it's not random
it's because all you take is a very very
it takes a very very small signal for
you to pick up and get emotionally
activated and then everyone else is
[ __ ] confused because they're like
I'm 80% happy and 20% upset your
girlfriend can be eighty percent happy
and 20 percent upset and you're gonna
pick up on the 20% upset and that's what
you're gonna react to absolutely
absolutely and why do you do that is it
because you're an uncontrollable
emotional person no it's because like
literally I want you to think about this
there are two Coco's
one who goes home and pays attention to
the look and one who goes home and does
not to pay attention to the look and
what happens to those two Coco's what
happens to one who pays attention he
gets emotional okay what are his chances
of getting beat on the week like Barry's
okay super sporadic sure if you weren't
paying attention to your dad what are
the chances that you get beat if I
wasn't paying attention to my father
yeah I always I was always paying
attention to my father that's the first
thing I did I step in the door good so
my point is that you were always paying
attention and why is that because even
before you remember there were times
that you weren't paying attention and
when you weren't paying attention you
didn't see the look because you were
playing with your Legos and then you got
beat so you learned from a very very
early age you always have to pay
attention because that is survival
mechanism think about it like
evolutionarily like in one scenario you
get beat and in one scenario you don't
get beat so your six-year-old brain
learns I have to pay attention and now
what's happening is you haven't learned
to stop paying attention or you haven't
realized that you're still paying
attention and you haven't realized it's
not that you're like emotionally
unstable no it's that you're emotionally
your ability to detect negative emotion
and other things from people is way
higher than the average person even far
beyond what you're consciously Cape like
aware of and so then your girlfriend
gets really [ __ ] confused but the
problem here is that you respond to the
way that she's feeling which she doesn't
even know herself she's not conscious of
it and you're not conscious of it but
you put you detect it and then the part
of your brain that form when you were
six to protect you from getting beat
takes over oh my god that's insane cuz I
I remember like I'd walk I always walked
home from school so I'd walk home might
open the door and the first thing I do
is sometimes he wasn't home sometimes he
was I let's get
entire house and look for him I would
just I would not like look at him lately
like I would try to just get a look at
him
cuz the doors really wowed by the time
I'm in he already knows I'm in the house
you know so I try to just get a look at
him and I first thing I do is I'd look
at his face always and if he gave me the
look I was like oh I'm getting my ass
kicked that's fascinating
that's it's weird what's weird about it
what's because I didn't I didn't I
didn't know this I I wasn't conscious
about this I I had no idea like I wasn't
aware of what I was doing you know but
then you brought it up and it just makes
sense
I'm just trying to protect myself
absolutely so now the question is if you
want to change you're afraid that you're
a particular kind of person right yeah
and so now what we have to do is we have
to ask ourselves like when you blow up
for no reason is it truly no reason or
are you just picking up on something
that you're not consciously aware of and
your girlfriend is not consciously aware
of
I think it's thing it's number two I'm
not a way I'm picking up on something
and right so what and the person doesn't
realize what I'm blowing up for and I
don't realize when I'm blowing up for
but it's because I picked up on
something that the person isn't even
aware of yep and just think about this
when you went home when you were like
seven or eight years old like
consciously like just think about the
eight-year-old if I were to ask you Coco
is an 8 year old what are you doing
you would say I don't know like the 8
year old has no conscious do you see how
like the survival mechanism of your
brain has nothing to do with
consciousness mm-hmm like as the 8 year
old doesn't understand why he's checking
every room in the house yeah and then I
asked you like Coco what are you doing
and you say I'm looking for my dad and
then I'd ask you why are you looking for
your dad and then you're like I don't
know like 8 year olds don't understand
why they do things with me yeah
so that part of your brain evolved and
sort of like leveled up to a certain
capability and then like set itself
aside and started operating autonomously
that's how our brain works and then your
conscious mind developed after the age
of 14 15 16 so it's started growing over
here but it was never aware of like this
other like it's like a program that's
running in the background yeah it is
right and then and then you think you're
a bad person because the conscious you
doesn't understand that like when you
hit control-alt-delete
and you look at the task manager there
are all kinds of these processes that
are that are running and you just have a
process you have you literally have a
survival process it's not like a I'm an
[ __ ] process or I'm an evil person
it's literally a survival process and
then there are a couple of other things
like you have you do have I mean I
imagine so one thing that we see is you
know trauma is correlated with what we
call emotional instability which i think
is a terrible it's the second worst term
in medicine the number one term in
medicine that I think is dumb in
judgmental is incompetent cervix which
if you guys know what that means it's
like anyway when women are pregnant
sometimes you know they have this thing
called a cervix which has to open up so
like the uterus is different from the
vagina and the cervix is like the door
between the uterus and the vagina and
the baby is in the uterus and then the
cervix opens up during birth so then the
baby passes through the uterus through
the cervix into the vagina and then out
and then an incompetent cervix is a
cervix that is like too loose and so
like it doesn't keep the baby in the
uterus so you can have like a premature
birth and it can end bad but the word
incompetent is just like it's like your
cervix is [ __ ] dumb no it's not dumb
anyway it's just anyway so like
emotional instability I think is a
really judgmental term that I don't
think is fair it's not that you're I
don't think like even sensitivity is is
like has a negative connotation to it so
I would say this Coco your brain is
emotionally primed so you're like like
you know when you play rust and you're
primed for conflict and you're looking
for it yeah so you're paying at
to every little thing in the environment
because that could mean you get beat
yeah and so that's what your brain is in
terms of motions you're looking for
things you're always on the lookout
because when you weren't on the lookout
you got beat hmm so it's not that you're
emotionally unstable it's just that your
emotions do react more quickly and part
of that is all go ahead
I think me living in New York like has
elevated that to because in New York
when you're walking by yourself at 2:00
in the morning you're always looking
around you're always making like some
guy looks at you up and down and looks
at your shoes right oh I don't it's
funny you say that about emotion and
being able to judge someone cuz like
when we go out to a party or we'd go out
somewhere I get one look at group of
guys and I'd be like it's gonna be a
long night yeah it's gonna be a long
night so I will tell you this Koko I
have walked up and down the streets of
New York and I have never once thought
about anyone looking at my shoes like
I've never once noticed what people are
looking at or not I mean I I have once
or twice like I can tell when people are
predatory and or mentally ill like have
schizophrenia and things like that but
you know like because that's what I've
been primed to look look at but I'm
generally oblivious to things like that
hmm and so this is just like your brain
is prone to survival mechanism now the
problem that you run into is that your
brain evolved to function in a hostile
environment right now the problems that
you run into and this is where you need
to grow and change is not that you're a
bad person
but you're no longer in a hostile
environment so your brain is freaking
the [ __ ] out when it doesn't need to
anymore that doesn't make you a bad
person doesn't make you emotionally
unstable it just means that you need to
learn and you need to intentionally
teach your brain how to respond
differently because hopefully your
girlfriend doesn't be and she's not
gonna be mm-hmm
right hopefully is very very patient
with me yeah so so hopefully that's the
case and it's just gonna take you some
time to like learn that and you can
intentional
do that to speed up the process like you
know hopefully most people like to learn
how to get over this at some point but
we can definitely help you understand a
little bit about how to do that so I
wonder if I mean I let me just pause for
a second and ask you one or two
questions so the first is what do you
think about our conversation so far I
opening okay
very very eye-opening because you're
telling me things I'd even realize it's
about the whole emotional thing like it
it makes sense
it makes complete sense the first thing
I do is look at a person's face and
their body posture and I I can like tell
how they're feeling just like this yeah
I get one read very common in trauma and
I think in order to understand it my
outburst we have to you know go deeper
than that deeper in what way cuz cuz my
my my idea was like I just had these
random emotional outbursts that's what I
initially said to you right yeah and
then you talked about this idea of order
line personality disorder and you're
reacting you're in a hospital I feel I
have not changed or I've been able to
fix this is cuz it varies I haven't had
one in two weeks but I have I have
nightmares
it's are flaring it flared around when I
left I couldn't sleep in a room with the
room was dark because as a child my dad
would strain and would come in the room
and beat me up in the dark so I couldn't
sleep in a room that was dark too I was
like 13 14 I was terrified of the dark
now I could sleep in the dark but when
we left and ran away from my father I
started having emote the emotional
number one the emotional outbursts well
you know what we talked about and number
two I started having nightmares I've
recreated scenarios that my father has
done and scenarios that never happened
but still terrifies me and
it happens once a week okay Coco are you
seeing a therapist
no hear us I had an evaluation done like
four for ADHD but that's was that even a
therapist I don't even know but probably
you're the first maybe
you're the first so a couple of concrete
things okay the first is that you know I
really think you should see a therapist
by the way I don't think you have
borderline personality disorder like
there's a you know I'm not diagnosing
through something I'm using that as an
example of generally speaking so I used
that because the studies on BPD are
pretty good but essentially this is
common of trauma so you don't have to be
peppy PD but like my conception so a big
part of the way that I view mental
health which is like sort of different
from some of my colleagues is they view
it as an illness and it's absolutely
like an illness in the sense that it
interferes with your life right because
you don't want to have these emotional
outbursts it's maybe puts a strain on
your relationship or things like that so
I get that it's like not good for you
but the more that I've come to
understand mental illness the first
thing that I start with is that this
person is not crazy and the more that
I've adopted that mindset the more I've
come to learn that like our mind does
things to protect us and it just doesn't
know any better
right because your responsiveness to
like subconscious stimuli or like
literally a survival mechanism freedom
and so now the question is so now this
is kind of sort of sort of the second
part is like now I'd like to ask you
where you want to go so there are two or
three different directions one is that I
can talk to you about your thoughts and
feelings and we can hear stories about
your past and sometimes people feel like
emotionally unburdened for that
sometimes people watch for people
telling really heavy [ __ ] and they cry
and they have this beautiful moment at
the end and all this kind of stuff we
can talk about your past and you can
share the dark parts I'm happy to talk
to you about that leaning a little bit
away from it because what I've actually
like to do is help you I get the sense
that you've explored some of those parts
yourself in terms of getting to the
emotions some people struggle and
reaching the emotions it doesn't seem
like you
you've done a lot of good work around
that so the next two things that we
could do is to help you reinterpret and
understand the impact of that stuff on
your current life so to help you tunnel
down into what precisely is an emotional
outburst what are the sequence of the
sequences of events and how can you
understand like what that process is
because once you know to look for it
like in rust that is camouflage right do
you how does yeah do you know how to
spot camouflage if a bush is green and I
mean it's pretty obvious of a guy just
hiding in a bush okay so like my point
is that generally speaking like you know
there are people like there are things
that are camouflage that are hard to see
and once we learn how to spot camouflage
we come better we become better at like
detecting it and then we can act on it
so I think that what's going on in your
emotional outbursts is that there's a
lot of stuff that you're blind to and
once we teach you how to not be blind
then you can start to control it
because right now the problem is like oh
I have this random emotional operation
it's not random you think you're just
like you wake up and you're like in the
middle like in the middle of a four-hour
stream you just have an emotional
outburst you're like taking your third
piss of the day or you're refilling your
bottle and you like just have this
emotional outburst I mean maybe you do
that's what it feels like yeah so I
think that there's actually but that
doesn't make sense to me because like
you're not I mean human brains are not
random right like you don't just you
know wake up one day and decide to dress
like a chicken and pretend and make
monkey noises like that's random like
the human brain responds and generally
like when do you eat when you get hungry
when do you get sad when you talk about
sad [ __ ] or you listen to sad [ __ ] or
when you stop distracting yourself and
you're sitting alone right like there's
an order to our mind and our thoughts
and so you just don't get you're sad at
random times when you watch a sad movie
like there are things that trigger our
thoughts and emotions in particular ways
when do you feel like eating pizza when
you see an advertisement for pizza or
when you smell someone else eating pizza
there's like order to our mind so I
don't believe that your emotional
outbursts are random
I think the reason there are a couple of
principles around that so I'd like to
help you maybe understand your emotional
operas the third option and this is kind
of opening a different can of worms so
maybe like Session two or like you know
twitch stream to is to really talk about
your fear of abandonment and where that
comes from and sort of thinking about
relationships but I leave it up to you
I'm happy to just listen and then you
know as you talk about things maybe I
can bring up a couple of other things so
if you want to just tell us about you
know what it was like to run away at 14
what you understood I mean all that
stuff I think is gonna be interesting
although I don't know exactly where
that's gonna go and this option number
two is for us to dig into the emotional
outbursts and maybe try to get some
understanding of them because I think
that when I look at you I see one one
foundation to all of your fear and it's
that you're not in your control
yeah and so if I think about how can I
help this guy the simplest way is to
teach you to help you see that you can
be in control and if I can do that
everything comes tumbling down all of
your fears about being an abusive father
will come tumbling down
and the third is to talk about a man in
it what do you think we've got about
maybe 15 20 minutes left so we can kind
of tie things up okay
maybe half an hour do you feel like it I
think by me telling what cuz like at the
start you're like I don't think I have a
fear of you becoming like your father
and then after I told another story
alright I told you more about myself you
understood more and you're able to you
know get more insight and more knowledge
to me so I think by me telling you my I
think telling you more about me and my
character can help you help me sure
beautiful so what do you want to tell me
about your character so my fear
my fear of abandonment I think comes
from cuz like you mentioned like people
with borderline personality disorder
like they get very emotional when people
leave yeah right I think I do that too I
think I can I think I've done that and I
have I've done that in the past before
one other it's ex-girlfriends or it's
some you're the crazy ex-boyfriend I'm
not crazy and they're like oh like
stalking the profile and like go into
their house I'd never done anything like
yeah I've never done anything like that
but I feel some type III definitely feel
emotion but more from friends from like
people I conserve good friends and
ex-girlfriends because if relationship
doesn't work then [ __ ] it doesn't work
can't do it we got to move on but with
friends it's more of like when I
befriend someone I see them as like a
brother or a sister like I it's either
were associates or were very very very
close and when that person when there's
the threat of that person weaving and
weaving my life I can get very emotional
can you tell me about that I get
frustrated because it's like can you
tell me an actual instance like who are
we talking okay do you talk to me about
something okay so me and this guy knew
each other for I'd say two years and we
were really good friends we went to the
same high school we were on the same
wrestling team really good friends we
went to each other birthday parties we
hung out all the time blah blah blah uh
how old were then when you guys became
friends
oh we were we were fifteen when we
became friends and then we were friends
told were seventeen and then I remember
when we became seventeen he started to
kind of drift away he kind of got
distant in our conversations and he
didn't check up on me as often as he did
and
I got really really angry and I got
really angry and I saw him in the
hallway and I pushed him for no reason
and then after that he blocked me and we
didn't talk after that
so when you say for no reason mm-hmm
help me understand are you detecting a
reason now or at the time did you think
it was no reason at the time I detected
the dozin right no reason I think I
think what happened now I was telling
the story of like what I thought back
then not like yep now like I think now
what happened is he just found new
friends
he just cuz in high school and college
like people just you know like they they
bounced around from social circle to
social circle people change and I think
like he found his own like group his own
little group cuz he he leaned more
towards uh what's what's the thing
called when we argue debate team he
joined a debate team and I continued
with wrestling hmm so he was more busy
with his schedule and I was busy with
mine and I understand that now but back
then I just chalked it up as she hates
me but he was just busy with his own
thing yeah so let's let's not think
about now because that actually doesn't
help us very much let's think about then
because if we think about you know I
okay I put you remember what we talked
about with Minecraft blowing up the tnt
building whatever I destroyed our
friendship yes I decided to destroy the
friendship and by pushing him and also
insulting him and just like kind of
clowning him I destroyed our
relationship I destroyed it before he
could destroy the relationship because I
felt like that's what he was doing at
the time okay that's very common for
people with BPD hmm so let me share with
you some thoughts so once again I'm not
diagnosing you cuz I yeah over the
Internet
but you understand that right I'm just
gonna share with you information so
having worked with some people with BPD
and this also doesn't necessarily to be
PD this is oftentimes people with trauma
the thought of someone leaving you can
be so painful and it can also be so
powerless
so sometimes it's kind of like this
sentiment well if it's gonna happen
let's just get it over with like some
people especially in the histories of
trauma more so than BPD some people kind
of you know have this mentality that
like I sure know not some people most
people actually assure no is easier to
deal with than an uncertain yes you know
you just like tell me do you like me or
do you not like me like let's just get
it over with because right now I don't
know and it's the not knowing that's
killing me yeah that has nothing to do
BP that's just normal okay right so like
sometimes what happens is like what we
do is like when we're we're not sure
where things are going but we don't
think they're going in the right
direction we like put things to a climax
like we put things to a test and it's
like what is he gonna do when I push him
is he gonna like try to fix things or is
he gonna like let things go
does that make sense yeah that makes
sense so let me ask you this like so so
we used a very interesting phrase which
is that he's he didn't check up on me as
much so generally speaking when I think
about two friends I don't think about
their interactions is checking up on
each other does that make sense say that
again so you used the phrase he didn't
check up on me as much mm-hmm he like
stops checking up on me yeah but like I
think about checking up on is not like
like you didn't say he like stop texting
you
right you stop texting me stopped like
he just kind of like fine went ended on
thing I
I completely I had her sent what you're
saying my point is that like used a
particular phrase which I don't usually
think about when I think about friends
hmm like I'm gonna like you know play
games with my friends tonight but like I
don't check up on them during the day
right like I message upon discordant
psych hey man what do you want to play
like I don't envision that is checking
up on does that make sense yeah that
makes sense so who do you check up on
when do we I use the word like check up
on as in like just like you know if you
have a friend that you consider close to
you yeah hey man how you doing how's
work going how's how's uh how's your
parents doing like you know smart like
checking up on them you know I
completely agree so you're using it
appropriately but how is the question so
let me put it this way like checking up
on is a sign of like how is your
interaction with your friends I
completely agree that's checking up on
I'm not saying it's not how is that
different from the way that I interact
with my friends like what is yours if I
if I message you and I'm like hey man
you don't play games tonight versus if I
message you know like hey man how are
your parents are they doing okay with
Kovan like what does one message imply
in another message not imply one message
is just you're trying to hang out yeah I
guess the other message is you trying to
be like you you trying to like hey man
like how you doing I guess yes what's up
like I would say that one is about
caring and one in a not so when I think
about mentally when I think about who do
I check up on it's the people that I'm
worried about it's the people that I
care about does that make sense
yeah and even the way that you interact
with people it sounds like you actually
like give a [ __ ] about them like you
care yeah so let's if we assume that the
fray is checking up on associates with
caring what does it mean if he stops
checking up on you he doesn't care is
that how you felt yeah right so then
looking back looking back I think he was
just we were both in high school and
looking back is fine now you understand
that but how did you feel back then I
felt like why is this piece of [ __ ]
ghosting me like what did what did I do
wrong it feels like he doesn't care he
doesn't care about me he doesn't care
about you right and if he doesn't care
about you then what does that make you
do makes me want to like hurt him not
yeah yes you want to loot Lee because
what does it like to be not cared about
feels terrible
in what way it my dad hurting me right
yeah because it's even worse with
friends because I think the people that
it's hard for you to get away from are
the ones that led you to believe that
they care mm-hmm it's like you
understand that there's associates and
you don't emotionally invest in them at
all no but once you open the door
because it's hard for you to do that
yeah it's really hard and then you let
someone in and you start caring about
them and they start caring about you and
then like it can be it can feel really
hurt I'm just gonna toss a sentence out
there and you let me know try to think
back to you being 17 and whether it felt
this way you were supposed to care yeah
after all we've done together you were
supposed to care absolutely beautifully
put
and I I saw him like my brother you know
like I said it's either Associates or we
we even called each other brothers yeah
it's either associates or it's you're
very very close to me there is no
in-between I can't juggle that so when
it's now I'm very like I'm very picky
with like who I let into my life and who
I opened the doors for because it's the
ones that's closest to you that can hurt
you the most so oddly enough Coco I'm
gonna suggest to you a different
strategy okay so the problem so let me
just let's walk through that strategy so
you're more selective about the people
that you let into your life
right so like ergo fewer people are
coming into your life what is the
likelihood that they will leave oh
you're talking about right now look not
really that like not really likely but
they're gonna leave right like just
think about it like you're 21 you're
dating a girl like what's the chance
that you're gonna marry you pretty high
okay I know you think that what's the
chance that 21 year-olds marry their
girlfriend pretty well gonna happen
right I'm not saying that your it's
gonna happen to your case I mean when I
was 21 I was dating a girl and she's the
one that I ended up married were
together 16 years later so knows I'm not
disputing that but I'm saying
statistically you're letting fewer
people in but because of stuff like
you're 21 right so like people are gonna
be like your friends are gonna be like
graduating and moving and things like
that like all that kind of [ __ ] is gonna
happen in the same way that you look
back on high school and you say people
grow and they change you're still 21 man
like people are still growing and
changing so those people are the people
that you choose to let in are gonna
leave your life and it's gonna hurt when
they do that and the problem is that
when they leave your life for completely
normal reasons what are you gonna do how
did you respond to being hurt in high
school what do you do now
I pushed them
you bet what's happen now I would just I
would just think about the good times we
had that's really that's really nice to
hear I think though that what you would
do is probably more of what you're doing
now so here's the pattern that I'm
seeing pretty open arms lots of people
in and out you get hurt a couple times
narrower arms I'm more selective fewer
people in and out chances of people
abandoning you less but it's still gonna
happen cuz you're 21 yeah and when you
get hurt again narrower very few people
coming in and out so I think over time
you're gonna isolate yourself I think a
better strategy is for you to when you
perceive that someone else is pulling
away from you having a conversation with
them
don't just mourn and think about the
good times like you can actually change
them leaving if you change the way you
talk to them right if you were 17 and
you were kind of saying like hey men you
have time to chat and then like not just
chat cuz like I'm sure you made good
efforts right you would check up on him
a couple times it started becoming
pretty one-way and you sort of saw
everybody I try I try to hang out with
them and like you wouldn't give you the
time of day oh you'd say yeah and then
you just ghost me absolutely right and
and so then like I think what you need
to like learn how to like not just push
him away at that point or say like [ __ ]
him he's not worth my time because
that's like another sort of impulse
right like when we get hurt we're like
[ __ ] that he's not worth my time
yeah it's to actually like authentically
share with people what you feel and it's
hard when you're 17 but like you know
it's to sit down with the guy and say
like hey man like we've made plans three
times and you've ghosted me three times
like I understand that people grow and
change and you've got a new batch of
friends and you're in a debate club I
think that's awesome but to be blunt
like I thought we were really tight and
I know that it's not it's not like you
hate me or anything but like frankly
dude I miss you like it's hard for a
17-year old male to tell another 17-year
old male who are platonic and close that
they miss each other our society has not
made it easy for us to say things like
that yeah but if you feel like people
are
leaving your life like rather than like
try to maneuver around it which once
again your brain is gonna do because do
you see like how your brain shut down
any kinds of attempts at direct
communication about how you feel because
if you told your dad how you felt
nothing [ __ ] didn't matter yeah so
you have literally shut off a particular
path of interacting with people and the
reason that you shut it off is because
you had such a big influence in your
life with which that path of
communication was useless but imagine
this for a second right like if you base
a strategy about how to live your life
on the interactions with your dad you're
[ __ ] yeah cuz thankfully people are
not your dad oh thank god and so you've
got to learn a different way of
interacting with people right it's to
let people know like hey man like I'm
feeling like we're drifting apart in
this relationship
I mean it's some hard [ __ ] to say but
it's kind of like literally telling
people hey man I feel like we're
drifting apart and I value our
friendship
and I want you to be a part of my life
it's like if you say that to like one of
your friends on discord like what the
[ __ ] like they don't even know what to
do with that right but then you can
model with that the chances are you feel
the same way and then like they're gonna
say something to you they're gonna say
like yeah man I'm really busy like
actually it turns out that like my dad
has cancer and I don't have enough time
and then it's like oh [ __ ] and then you
understand cuz there's a part of you
that feels like you were a piece of [ __ ]
because remember your dad a long time
ago you started believing that you're a
piece of [ __ ] and now this is where we
get into the psycho now this is
psychobabble kind of stuff so you have a
part of you that starts with the idea
that takes the truth that you're a piece
of [ __ ] and then what it does is it it
like you've got some sort of lethal
combination of shits - it's the perfect
tornado you know part of yourself
believing that you're a piece of [ __ ] an
oversensitive or a highly primed sensory
system that detects any kind of
discomfort so even if people are 80%
happy with you in 20
sad with you or frustrating 20% sad
you're gonna you see how that's like
that's a double whammy yeah those two
things combined to make it hard for you
to engage in relationships if we def we
took away either one you'd be fine it's
the combination of the two and that's
gonna change the way and then the third
the third like if you want three strikes
and you're out the third strike is that
you have not been taught how to relate
to people with your feelings because
that entire process was [ __ ] a waste
of time when you were growing up like
your mom maybe tried talking to your dad
and they're like please don't hit Coco
and your dad was like [ __ ] you and then
smack turn and then smack to you and so
then your six-year-old brain was like oh
talking to people is a waste of [ __ ]
time
what's way better is for you to
interpret to mind-read and then adjust
accordingly which is exactly what you do
you mind read oh this person doesn't
care about me oh I'm gonna do this and
I'm gonna do this like you never
interact with them you interpret it
becomes truth in your mind you know
exactly what their thoughts are and then
you just adjust your behavior without
ever directly communicating with them
with that I said to her because I was
thinking about your girlfriend is that
what you do with your girlfriend yeah
absolutely
you know what's in her mind I don't know
what's in her mind but like I look at
her face and my mood can insulate just
like that right so now I'm gonna give
you something super super concrete okay
which is when you look at her face and
your mind shifts like this I want you to
try to see what the mind has had what's
happened in your mind and all even even
if you don't seek if you can't piece it
together what I want you to do is tell
her in that moment I'm not sure exactly
what happened but something just shifted
in my mind and I'm feeling kind of like
antsy or stressed out just communicate
with that to her and then the cool thing
is because she's not your dad she's
actually hopefully gonna like help you
work through that and then maybe you
guys can have a conversation about it
and maybe you'll feel better and then
you don't have to
let that shift control and that's where
you're gonna get your power back makes
sense that makes so much sense
Thank You dr. kay thank you for watching
coca I still have faith in you man I
think you're gonna be okay
it's gonna be you know it's gonna be
hard like it's hard to do that but just
start with catching catch the shift as
best as you can
mm-hmm and then shirt like like catch it
and communicate like you don't need to
fix it you don't need to get her to do
anything you don't need to do anything
yourself catch it and communicate that's
really all you need to do questions so
not just my girlfriend but just like
people in general like if I get it's
like second nature like if I can look at
a person to say it's first nature its
first Nate if I can look at a person's
face and my I can't it's it's not like a
thought process it just happens
yeah it just happens anyway how do i how
do I control that if it's just impulse
it's it's like drinking water you don't
you know you don't drink water in your
nose you drink in your mouth yeah see
you can't control the first step you can
control the way that you respond to it
so this is it's kind of weird but when
you say its second nature it's not
second nature its first nature what you
can actually control the second nature
you can't control the way that your face
interprets I mean the way that your
senses interpret their face because
that's been programmed in that process
is running what you can do is control
the way that you respond to that that's
where the control comes from you can't
and maybe over time you can actually you
can over time rewire that brain that
part of your brain there's good data to
support that but it takes a couple of
years but what you can you can also do
is like you can catch it and then you
can choose not to respond in the way
that you normally do which honestly the
way that you normally respond is by
doing nothing you see that like you do
something way down the road from when
you know the problem arises does that
make sense
mm-hmm there's like you notice point a
point B
see point D point e point F you notice
lots and lots of things and your brain
is interpreting lots and lots of
information you act around like X Y & Z
and at that point like that's where the
emotional outburst comes from nowhere it
doesn't come from nowhere
it comes from 97 percent of [ __ ]
building up and then you just overflow
yeah like I want you to imagine it this
way let's say my trashcan is full and
then I throw one banana in the trash and
then the banana spills out and then I
scratch my head and I'm like holy [ __ ]
it's completely random sometimes I throw
one banana in the trash and it doesn't
overflow and sometimes I feel like it's
completely random like my my trashcan is
random like one banana can make it
overflow sometimes it's not how it works
man it's not random you're overflowing
and you're just not aware that your
trashcan is filling up throughout the
day so the solution is to catch as
little the any point that you can catch
it and then I would say start with your
girlfriend because that's kind of easy
like it's weird to do this with other
humans but you have to pick someone
that's kind of like intimate that you're
close with you can pick your mom or
someone who can be patient with you it
sounds like she's patient and then you
know she comes home one day and then you
see her like you're telling her about
your day and she's texting and then you
get like jealous or pissed off at her
because it feels to you like she doesn't
care because if she cared she wouldn't
paying attention and then what you do is
you catch it and then as best as you can
you try to explain it to her and gonna
say like I don't know why like and this
is what you have to be careful because
this is where like the abusive part of
you could come in if you try to control
her behavior and make her stop texting
then you go down the abusive Road
gotcha so you don't want to control it
you just want to acknowledge and say
like I'm not saying and then you have to
let her do that right like you have to
give her the power to sort of say like
hey I'm not saying you should stop
texting but right now in this moment I
feel like you're not really paying
attention to me and I just really want
you to and then it's like you guys have
to work out like - sure she stopped
texting right now or should you learn
how to manage your own feelings and then
she's
finish your texting and then she'll like
you guys will connect in 15 minutes and
then you guys can talk about it
how's a question yeah I think she should
so if she's texting and I see her and I
don't like that she's texting I
immediately catch myself and I say hey I
don't really like that you're texting
it's bothering me I have a feeling do
what I shouldn't say put the phone down
do I just say how I'm feeling absolutely
and in fact what you want to say is I'm
not asking you to put the phone down I'm
trying to share with you the way that I
feel okay right so sure okay you don't
want to guilt-trip her into putting the
phone down which is what's gonna happen
so you even need to collect correct on
the opposite side and then like if
there's an impulse to you that's like
put the [ __ ] phone down [ __ ] you
need to notice that - I don't think I
don't think like that okay good I have I
am like that's just like like why is she
not paying attention to me yeah like I
look at her face I'm like oh she doesn't
really care what I'm saying her eyes are
you know right I know I know that see
but you don't this is the thing you
can't know your brain tells you you know
but you literally cannot know what's in
someone's head but that's not what your
brain tells you your brain is like I see
that look in her eyes and I know like
just pause and think about that for a
second can you like can you read minds
no but you feel that way yeah right so
like like people who have had a history
of trauma can become mind reader's
that's what they feel they start to
believe that the thoughts are facts
right and looking back on it now like
you recognize that that your body just
like you know he grew into a different
person because you guys met when y'all
were 15 and then like he was 17 and then
like y'all are different people but back
then you knew that he didn't care about
you you see that difference yeah I see
the difference and you're gonna have it
now - you're gonna know that she doesn't
care about you and then you can also
like let her know cuz it's gonna be
[ __ ] weird for you got to get
like some kind of like background about
this conversation and that you're gonna
try something new I'll just have her
watch a stream she's not watching right
now because I asked her not to but I
just have our watches sure right and
then and and so you're right like so you
gotta be really careful because you
don't want her to act what you want to
be able to do is separate because this
is exactly your goal so just listen
carefully separate your emotions from
other people's actions and your own
actions separate decouple emotion and
action oh that's so hard yes and here's
the thing Koko once you can do that you
don't have to worry about being an
abusive father anymore okay I'll try you
with me yeah I'm with you because it's
the abusive father is gonna come from
uncontrolled emotion it's gonna come
from emotion leads to action and there's
no control in between so you can
literally train yourself to uncouple
those things by sharing your feelings
with her and asking her not to put the
phone down mm-hmm and then saying can we
talk about this in 15 minutes and then
as you learn to wait 15 minutes or five
minutes or 60 seconds it starts with as
pathetic of a time amount as you want to
then it becomes 90 seconds then it
becomes 10 minutes then it becomes 15
minutes hey can we check in about this
tomorrow and then one day you're gonna
wake up in your emotions don't control
you dad that'd be the best day ever but
it's gonna be hard and it's gonna be
slow so catch it and communicate this
step one you ready to meditate yeah I'm
ready to try really try to get this
thing under control okay good so we're
gonna start sit up straight I have a
really really hard meditation technique
for you okay mmm close your eyes I want
you to notice your breath
so unfortunately Coco this technique is
gonna be hard and I'm not going to give
you any training wheels so I want you to
can you tell the difference between the
inhalation and exhalation like like I'm
inhaling and exhaling mm-hmm can you
tell the difference it's kind of a silly
question I know but it's a simple yeah
obviously so I want you to find the
moment where inhalation becomes
exhalation
okay
can you find it find the moment
inhalation becomes exhalation yes
it happens when I mean it happens when I
inhale and then when I feel like I've
been held enough I exhale I am not sure
okay
so let me ask you something is there a
moment where you pause the breath yeah
don't pause okay let the breath flow
naturally from inhalation to exhalation
I'm doing it and now catch the moment
where one becomes the other well that's
weird
good that means you're doing it right
slow down breathe through your nose
slow slow slow breathing way too fast go
slow I understand why you're breathing
fast because you're trying to collect
more data at the transition yeah let
yourself sit in the exhalation is
inhalation and then sit in the
exhalation and then notice that
transition
by way too fast
I think you're doing better if you feel
like you're breathing too fast then slow
down don't get lightheaded take a break
for a couple of breaths if you need to
just breathe normally and then return to
the technique
I think I'm doing it okay what are you
doing tell me I'm inhaling and then
break before I hit spring I'm exhaling
and I'm catching it again on the inhale
I'm sorry can you say that again I'm
inhaling and then before it hits like
the top I'm exhaling and then it like
before it like I'm switching it over and
over again so how are you exhaling if it
hasn't hit the top yet cuz I'm just I'm
just letting it out what is that what do
you mean by the top is that not the end
of the inhalation and I am I supposed to
be going at the end of an inhalation
can you I think you're doing it right
but maybe let's just understand our
terminology so what I'm hearing from you
is that you are catching the moment
where inhalation becomes exhalation yes
sir yeah yeah okay describe that moment
to me it feels I don't know it feels
pretty good it feels like I feel really
relaxed it feels awkward too though I
have never breathed like this before and
what feels awkward about it because like
I feel like there's like a rhythm with
breathing and I'm like I'm just like
breaking that rhythm so I'm just not
used to this pattern of breathing like
this rhythm of breathing and what is the
rhythm of breathing that you're doing
are you doing something a rhythm across
multiple breaths are you changing the
way that a single breath is breathed I'm
changing the way that a single breath is
be and how are you changing it I when I
inhale I use the exhale
I think I'm not explaining myself
properly that's okay it's because it's
hard to describe they're just it's it's
a lack of sufficient words in our
language it has nothing to do with you
know your capability so it sounds to me
almost like you are starting to exhale
while you are still inhaling yeah yeah
okay so I think you're doing
you're doing this call it's what you're
doing is somewhat impossible but I think
you're doing it right because do you get
this like you can't inhale and exhale at
the same time that's like literally not
possible yeah yeah but you're doing it
right and so now what I want you to
notice is that what you're noticing is
that there's a phase where inhalation
and exhalation overlap right
but if inhalation and exhalation overlap
over a period of time that is not the
moment where inhalation becomes
exhalation right I guess so let me put
it this way I want you to zoom into that
transition and find where exactly they
crossover perfectly okay by the way
sometimes it takes people a couple of
months to do this yes I'm like I feel
really relaxed but at the same time I'm
like getting frustrated because I feel
like I'm not doing it right no you're
doing it right it just takes practice so
this - so very good Toma have I done
sort of now I want you to notice your
frustration right so notice your
frustration and then step away from it
and do three more breaths where you look
for the moment of an inhalation
exhalation okay just focus on the
practice notice that you're frustrated
maybe I'm not doing it right you're
doing fine by the way I'm telling that
you're doing it right but just notice
that frustration let it be separate from
you and return your mind to where you
want to go
do you feel the frustration I don't
really feel it right now no good where
did it go I don't know I just breathed
this I don't know I wonder I wonder if
this can help you the next time you add
a tiny little piece to the to the trash
mm-hmm so now we're done so now I'm
gonna explain us a couple things to you
fantastic job Coco first of all it's a
[ __ ] weird exercise okay so part of
it is like we're exploring things like
it's like trying to explain to someone
you know if I take my kid and I put them
like in the water for the first time in
their life and I ask them how it feels
like I asked them how does it feel how
does the water feel different from the
air they're not gonna have words to
describe their experience even though
they're feeling it does that make sense
and then they may even get frustrated
when they try to describe how water
feels different from air because then we
just don't have language for so you're
so let yourself get frustrated so be it
but return to this practice and this
practice is gonna help you in two ways
the first is that it's training you and
catching it's training you to notice
that which you have never noticed before
which is gonna be like that's your rock
in rust right that's where you get
started and sure you can upgrade you can
do fancy meditation you can become a
good communicator you can decouple your
emotions from your actions and all that
stuff you can wonderfully build up over
time but your rock the thing that you
start with naked man whether rock is
catching catching is where it all begins
and you were doing it today because you
notice things about yourself that you've
never noticed before you see that yeah
that's the [ __ ] point it doesn't
matter whether you figure out the answer
or not it's not about the answer it's
that you're training yourself to look
man so just do that and the second thing
bonus little side advantage is that as
you experience frustration if you look
for the transition of the breath it will
give you
power over the frustration that's down
the road okay questions no questions
awesome man thank you so much for sure
thank you dude
thank you so much very welcome and thank
you so much for coming on and sharing
honestly I think that's the only time we
can do our work is when people are
authentic and like had the courage to
say what I was shaking last night like
my hands were shaking last night I was
shaking when I came on I was a nervous
wreck I was like oh my god how am I
gonna like I'm gonna really go on here
and but I feel so much better I feel so
much better
good I I cuz you can't solve a problem
if you don't know the question it's
impossible to solve it so it's like my
entire life I'd be like oh there's emo
but the trash cans overflowing I don't
know why it's overflowing why is it
overflowing I put a banana in there I
don't know and my entire life was based
on that and now like no it's you're just
not taking out the trash dumbass you
know yes perfect so this is why I have
faith with you for you Coco because if
you can learn how to take out the trash
you're not going to be an abusive father
it's that simple is it easy
no but there's absolutely a way forward
absolutely okay and you've got years I
imagine before you become a father never
know yeah yeah so you've got some time
so I'm glad you came on today really
really happy with how you're feeling and
I'm great kid to you as well so good
luck man thank you so much dr. kay Thank
You Brad take care yeah my pleasure
all right
[Music]
mmm okay let's see
we got time for questions can we do like
three questions yeah let's do it okay
sorry midstream hey okay hey what's that
mean
alright so my question in grants to
stream so say I'm making an effort and I
mean effort sort of like reflexive
listening
sort of like taking from the
communication stream so I'm again effort
to communicate to a person like how I
feel but then I noticed that person
comes like defensive so quotations like
why are you questioning me like why do
you care so much for me those type of
responses what would be like the most
like safe strat to respond other than
like I care for you dude or like I I'm
worried about you ah so this does
require like you have to level up your
communication past level one
so so there are two things right so how
do you reflectively listen - why do you
care for me how do you reflectively
listen - why do you care for me I guess
like I give me I would give reasons as
to why I would care that's not
reflective listening right sure yeah
okay yeah so like literally how do you
reflectively listen like if I say so
let's play this game okay you're what am
i calling you buddy
I assumed zero so Xiao Xue Xue okay so
still I care about you now you play your
friend we're gonna roleplay
so you play your friend and I say Zil I
care about you wait like why so why do
you care so much about me like I like I
don't like I don't need you it sounds
like you're kind of confused as to why I
would care about you yes
can you help me understand why you're
why you think it's strange that are like
why you have trouble like help me
understand why you think that I wouldn't
care about you
I think because like okay I see like I'm
trying trial play like the other
person's like yeah like they have like I
guess like their own sort of like
reasons as to why
okay sure and then you reflectively
listen to those it's like the way that
you reflectively listen to a question so
this is the thing you guys think
reflective listening is hard because you
all get caught up and then you try to
provide reassurance no man it's
literally it sounds like and then you
fill in literally what they said let's
try it again
so Zil now you try it
I'm gonna play your friend and you're
gonna play you okay so like hey man like
so I I feel as if like you're you're
being more distant and I I noticed that
you've acted differently around me
versus other people and I just want to
know why is that okay so I don't know
we're gonna have to talk about that
communications though but so I don't
understand like why like I don't
understand why you would care about like
what I think like I don't understand why
you think I'm like why you care about me
like what what difference does it make
whether I treat you a certain way or
another way I guess like to pard a like
that difference kind of feels makes me
feel kind of you're answering the
question it's not reflectively listening
wrong okay gotcha
what is reflectively listening gonna be
trying to understand it's like oh I'm
sorry that no be like it's literally
literally say it sounds like and then
repeat the words that I say let's try
again yeah okay Zil express your caring
for everybody we'll get you there hey
man like you it it seems like you you've
changed a bit you've acted differently
around me I don't know why you care man
like I don't know what the big deal is
like I don't know why you would care
about like how I act around
so you're saying that you don't
understand why I care about you yeah I
mean that's what I'm saying man like I
don't understand why you care so why do
you think that is though that's not
reflective listening actually okay I
might need I'm I needed a refresher in
terms of like this contact so it's it's
literally okay we're gonna try it one
more time okay I'm gonna play you and
you're gonna play your friend okay the
problem is that you're responding to my
questions instead of repeating them
pretend that you're repeating bond and
you just repeat like you should be a
make yourself into an NPC people in chat
are saying like NPC simulator simulator
and you guys think that this is easy
it's not [ __ ] easy
I trained six years to learn how to do
this okay gotcha okay so let's try it
one more time I'm gonna be you and
you're gonna be your friend okay so hey
man like I'm concerned about like how
our interactions have been going
recently it sounds like you know I feel
like you're kind of treating me
differently why should that matter to
you like why do you care so much about
what I need to do like don't need to
worry about y'all so it sounds like
you're feeling like I shouldn't care so
much about what you I shouldn't care so
much about what you're doing I should
really pay more attention to like how
I'm acting yeah yeah so can you tell me
a little bit about how you think I
should be acting differently well I
think you should try not to worry about
me
I see so you think that I shouldn't be
worrying about you very much yeah and
help me understand why I shouldn't worry
about you very much
because I'm trying to do my own things
like I got my own problems like I don't
need you to care about me like I'm an
independent person yeah so you're you're
an independent person it doesn't sound
like you need my help yeah
so how has this been so far so now I'm
talking to you you got so we did like
three three reflective listening
statements yeah right so like you just
roll with it whatever he says you just
repeat it back
you don't answer his questions you don't
say like yeah man you do need my help
yeah man like if you if he says like
yeah you should like why don't we talk
about you for a minute and then you say
yeah okay let's talk about me for a
minute what should I say differently all
right so so the safe strats sort of like
rolling with it like continue rolling
with it to you not answering questions
repeating questions right yeah yeah yeah
it's just you don't answer his questions
you just reflect them back like I want
you to imagine that like you have 100%
damage resistance and anything he sends
your way you just bounce right off you
send it right back to him okay right
it's like and the problem is like when
you let something in and then you give
something back out you can't have 100%
damages this is resistance it's like
you're like you know you've ever played
an RPG where you have a defend action
yeah like we guard yeah and when you
guard you can't attack you can't cast a
spell when you're guarding the only
thing you can do is guard and so the
second you start answering his questions
you're no longer guarding reflective
listening goes away gotcha okay so just
guard and keep cockpit and so basically
what I do is like I'm a turtle right so
like way to do therapy is like you're a
turtle or you're an NPC bot that's also
a turtle and you show up in you guard
with people and then they get really
confused and then they explore things on
their own if you never say anything in
someone's like talking to a blank wall
but you're kind of encouraging them to
keep talking and then they'll figure
things out on on their own basically
what I do you want to see a good example
of people figuring [ __ ] out on your own
go back to the beginning of the stream
and then listen to Coco's first
interpretation that I even pointed out I
was like I didn't
give you any that [ __ ] man that all came
from you that's what happens when you
guard constantly as people start
leveling up it's weird yeah good luck
yeah all right thank you
I'd also be careful about your initial
statements because they're very like
judgmental and defense provoking yeah
yeah yeah like yeah
yeah right like so yeah well I mean
think about those but I guess I guess
I'll repeat them just like sure I'll
clarify
[Music]
yeah repeat them go I don't know I guess
like the the like what what makes it
judgmental I guess so so repeat what you
said originally because I you know hey I
feel as if you're you feel like you're
dreaming or like you're acting
differently around me versus other
people I just want to what yeah so I
wouldn't use the word why why invokes
defensive --mess so I feel like you're
treating me differently so I would say
and I wouldn't make a comparison to
other like what do you mean when you say
like when you say you're treating me
differently from other people like that
smells of [ __ ] like what are you
actually talking about like what does he
do
to other people that he doesn't do to
you or vice versa
oh god yes like for some reason or like
for example like that's gonna set off
his [ __ ] meter does that make sense
yeah yeah so what does he actually do Oh
like it's like hanging out less okay so
I would say that right I would say hey
man like I feel like we don't hang out
as much as we used to and I noticed that
you still hang out with like a lot of
these other people and I'd like to hang
out more don't cloak it in [ __ ]
because that's gonna make people
defensive tell people what you want and
be transparent with that gotcha okay
good luck man thank you
if it's a sheen no big deal all right
we're ready for round two hey man so
yeah my question is earlier industry you
mentioned that it's okay or it's good to
satisfy destructive urges and tendencies
in video games like cocoa doesn't rust
my question is why is it good and is
there something you can learn from what
your tendencies are in games destructive
tendencies and your tendencies in real
life like is there a correlation yeah so
first of all I wouldn't say that it's
good so that's what I said I would walk
that statement back a little bit I think
I mean I may have said it's good but I I
think what I was doing was wondering so
I like I think it can probably serve
some purpose to have a healthy outlet
for some of your frustrations so let me
put it that way but I think that the
tricky thing about your question is you
know there's a difference between using
games as an outlet for your frustrations
and using games as a feeding source for
your frustrations right like you can use
it as a way to like decompress some
emotion or you can use it to rile you up
emotionally um does it does a sit
destructive or toxic behavior not
reinforce that behavior in some way in
real life absolutely so I think it's
like I don't understand it very well
myself man to be honest like I don't
know but I've just noticed that like
sometimes when I'm feeling bad you know
it's satisfying to crush a noob on the
internet and like sometimes I feel
better about that I think you've got to
be careful about letting your emotions
out in video games which I think can can
be healthy and also like there's some
kind of balance which I'm not really
sure about about like when does that
become toxicity right when I make a
smurf and all I do on video games is
like crushing noobs like that's not
healthy but I think occasionally
crushing a noob from time to time I want
to say that that's healthy because it
feels so damn good
yeah okay all right so I don't really
know I mean I think it's something that
we as a healthy gamer community should
explore together is it the same thing as
the Germantown what's it called
schadenfreude or something yeah maybe
but I don't know that schadenfreude is
healthy to begin with right oh so just
something about something about a
specifically Coco's case where he's like
playing games like rust makes me feel
like he has an outlet for some of those
frustrations that is less damaging than
what he would do in the real world
that's just an instinct that I have and
I want you guys to understand that like
half of what I say is not substantiated
by science or even like any kind of
expert opinion sometimes what I offer
you guys is just instincts and opinions
that are just mine so I don't stand
behind that statement it's more of a
hypothesis that I would love it if you
guys could explore that and like try to
figure out is there a good limit to it
is there an unhealthy limit to it like I
don't really know it's something I'm
really curious about okay yeah that's
thanks a lot man thank you
[Music]
ready for the next Hey yes please and
what am i calling you by the way lily
mooie-mooie
so Mui so how can you help someone with
PTSD so I think that's a tricky question
because I think you have to understand
like depending on what your role is you
can or can't help them alright so the
first thing to understand is that
someone with PTSD may need treatment and
may need like a professional therapist
and just because you care about someone
or just because you love someone doesn't
mean that
you can actually provide them with what
they need right if someone's having a
heart attack and you were to ask the
question like how do I help someone with
a heart attack it's like you can do
chest compressions but what they
probably need is like a medical doctor
we're hacking you out then find a right
way to get that do they want to get that
well
innocent yes but at the same time
they're very scarce you okay so I think
you can start by like talking to them
about what they're afraid of
right so the short answer that I would
give you is that you should meet them
where they're at so if you have concerns
about them start by sharing those
concerns and say like hey I noticed that
you're suffering a lot because of this
and this and I did some reading on WebMD
and I'm wondering like have you ever
thought about whether you have PTSD you
start with like your concerns and like
why you think they have PTSD and give
them some chance like don't say I think
you have PTSD because of XYZ start by
saying hey I'm concerned this is what
I've noticed and then like give them
like does that bother you start with
like a super open-ended question so what
have you noticed about this person that
makes you concerned they have PTSD well
when I talked with her she used to live
with me here in the frost dome but she
got back home so her mom wanted her back
and now she lives in a different country
so every single time I talk with her she
always kind of whispers a little bit
she's scared of being too loud or if she
hears a little bit of cracking like
under floor she stops talking like it's
like breathing almost like she just gets
quiet completely sigh and and it's like
I want to help her admit you know be
comfortable and not being scared and so
she can feel relaxed because she's a
child you know it's sad to see that how
old is this person she's white teen
yeah so I'd steer clear of the term PTSD
okay so like if you're with a
fourteen-year-old you also have to
remember that like cognitively and
emotionally like did you watch the
stream with Koko a little bit I was very
busy okay
that that's okay so I was just gonna say
like if you imagine so Coco told us that
like him and his mom essentially ran
away from their dad at the age of
fourteen he and supporting a
fourteen-year-old is very different from
supporting an adult so everything that I
say is about supporting like adults so
with a 14 year old I would just start
with something really really simple so
the way to support them is very
different it's just creating a safe
space where they can talk to you if they
want so I wouldn't mention PTSD or try
to get them to do anything the way to
support someone or help someone with
PTSD is by making them feel safe with
you because a lot of times when people
deal with trauma like what they feel is
very alone and they feel very unsafe
that's why she speaks very quietly
that's why she doesn't you know it
sounds like this person like stops
talking when they hear the floorboards
creak yeah she did tell me that
yesterday when I talk protected she
likes talking with me and another guy
because they listen to her then I think
you're doing great yeah I was just
curious on how to help her out of their
home and support her because yeah so so
I think first of all you're already it
sounds like they're supporting her
pretty well and I would you know the
most I would ask her and maybe you guys
can talk about that is sometimes I've
noticed that you seem pretty scared like
you won't speak up very much
or you like speak very softly and then
start with something really really
simple like what do you think about that
or do you feel scared or something who's
super super super simple and then give
her a chance to talk and if she chooses
not to talk that's okay you don't have
to get her to talk so this is another
thing that I'll share with people a lot
of people think that helping people
involves getting those people to receive
to actually get help but remember that
like you know some people can be
struggling and it can be enough to know
that you care so I have you know I was
working with a patient of mine who was
trying to get one of her family members
into therapy and years later she decided
to go into therapy and now years later
that person has come back and expressed
so much gratitude she's like I know I
turned you down every time you told me I
the therapist but it actually like
really mattered to me that you cared
enough to keep mentioning it to me
and I know I got frustrated with you and
I know that I got angry with you but
like it's really nice to know that like
you you knew that I was feeling like
alone and you tried to help it's kind of
like you know if you invite someone over
for like you know let's say you have
like you're having people over you're
having a party and you may have one
friend that you invite over all the time
and they always say no even though the
person doesn't come it can still feel
really nice to be invited and be wanted
yeah thank you and so a lot of times
what happens is when we think about
supporting other people we think about
whether our support lands in a
particular way so you can think like oh
this person never comes over I should
stop inviting them and instead you
shouldn't stop inviting them you should
keep on inviting or even just have a
conversation with them say hey by the
way I've noticed like I've invited you a
couple of times and like I know you've
been busy or whatever do you want me to
keep inviting you and then they're gonna
say yes or no and then you just keep
doing it but you don't you maybe have
like like other than support her like
that maybe make the Calgary get out of
their innocence yeah I mean I think that
has way more detail than I can kind of
offer right so the question is what is
her situation what is wrong you know
what are her resources what are her
options so I think you know really like
it's like I mean you may be able to do
something on all of those fronts but not
knowing more about the situation I can't
really say what I can say is that
supporting even though it doesn't create
a whole lot of change can count for a
lot like I literally have patients that
I see in my office that the reason that
they don't care they don't commit
suicide is because they have one friend
who keeps on inviting them to parties
even though they never go like all it
takes is one person to care about you
for you to like feel like there's hope
and
that's true that's very true I I know
that already that that's what I was I
wanna do to her it was this I don't mean
on the professional anything and I don't
wanna give her any wrong advice I don't
want to make her think something there's
wrong and I don't I don't want it to get
hurt because she is a kid and it's
really hard for a kid to go through all
that kind of trauma so that is exactly
what I would say to her what you just
said is like hey like I know that I I
can see that your life is hard right now
or I'm thinking your life is hard right
now and you can even tell someone like
one of the nicest things that you can
ever say to someone is I want to help
you and I don't know how like see we get
so concerned about how to help people
you're like how do I support her
supporting people is not about the house
it's about wanting to in the first place
that make sense I guess yeah it's
bizarre you know just having her know
that you're there and you want to
support her and then she'll guide you
right if you say I want to help you and
I don't know how she'll say actually
this is enough like it's just nice to
have someone to talk to
she's probably gonna say something like
that cuz she's 14 and she's not gonna
understand her own feelings thank you
and so then if she says it's nice to
have someone to talk to
then you know that your duty is to be
that person for her to talk to don't
guide her just be a space that she can
come to and feel safe okay and then when
she's ready to make a change she'll let
you know sorry I keep talking over you
it's like anyway I can't thank you I'm
sorry she just always let her like if
she like she always says that when she
like she wanted to tell me about
something to happen with her mom or
something she did to herself she want me
to read something part of her diary
where she's like talking bleep
specifically about really scary details
about what you want to do and and I was
just curious what do I do if that
information she just listen to it should
I call something what should I do with
that I mean if you're concerned for her
actual like life or safety you can
definitely call someone like that's
something you should do I'll you know
like if you're concerned for her like in
a physical sense like if
it's like you know if there isn't like
an imminent threat
you can always encourage her I mean I
would in any way I would encourage her
to speak to a professional
so she's hopefully yes so you can even
start with someone that she knows so
instead of telling her to see a
therapist you can tell her like to talk
to her pediatrician yeah I wanted her to
do that but the thing is her mom keeps
coming into picture up if she calls her
crazy if you want to do that and then
she gets she goes I mean she's gonna see
her pediatrician at some point anyway
right no okay
yeah so I think a lot of these like come
down to the detail of the situation I
think the takeaway though is that it
sounds like you're actually doing a
pretty good job of supporting her and
then maybe try to like just continue to
talk to her and give her a space for her
to listen for you to listen and for her
to speak and then you can make
suggestions at some point if they feel
like good suggestions to you and you can
asked what she thinks about those sounds
like you're doing an awesome service to
this person thank you feel safe and grab
with my knowledge I love it yeah I mean
I don't know if you can give her a
normal childhood unless you want no I
can't but I want to try yeah good so do
what you can and good luck to you and
she's lucky to have you in her life
thank you very much doctor yeah yourself
that I take care bye all right folks so
that's that's wrapping it up for us
today